In August 2012, my brother Denis introduced me to DimSumLabs, a Hackerspace in Hong Kong. Around this time my brother and I had already spent the better part of a year getting to grips with programming for iOS and to no avail!

My initial thought about joining a hackerspace was 'great, maybe they can help teach me to make apps!'. However as I became more and more involved with DimSumLabs I quickly realized that this community had a lot more to offer as their members were also deeply involved with hardware and Hong Kong's developing startup community.

The members were just ordinary guys, guys with a problem that they wanted to solve.

Around this time my wife was around 7 months pregnant and I was about to become a father.



In October 2012, my wife gave birth to my son Adrian.

Soon after; splitting my time between work, learning about software, hardware and business startups; I started to learn about parenting. After my son was born, I became more aware of children's health problems.

I discovered a phenomenon known as Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS); the sudden death of an infant that is not caused by medical history and remains unexplained. As infants are at the highest risk for SIDS during sleep, it is also known as cot death or crib death.

Through my research, <a href="http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/116/5/1245.full">I discovered studies of Asian families who place babies to sleep on their back has found to reduce the occurrence of SIDS</a>. Based on this evidence the U.S. adopted this practice which has resulted in a marked reduction in the incidence of SIDS.

Yet I was still worried that my child would turn over in their sleep. As a new parent, I tried to look for a product that would alert me to the child turning over. 

Looking through the aisle of baby stores, baby magazines and online stores I failed to find a product that suited my needs. I would wake up 3~4 times a night to check on my son....who was sound fast asleep. I lacked the peace of mind.

Yes there was a plethora of varying baby monitors, from heart rate sensors, breathing monitors and such, but they were too complicated and expensive... and yet... they did not alert me to my son turning over in his sleep. As I investigated further, some of the passive sleep positioning devices on the market have been attributed to cause of death in some instances. 


Available products on the market try to solve it by:
1. monitoring the heart (heart rate stopping is usually a bad sign, by the time parents find out, it maybe too late)
2. respirator monitors (child's breathing has stopped. Do you know CPR?)
3. positioning (aka bolster cushions) that hold the child in place (some products have been attributed to the death of the child. Why are these baby products still on the market?)


Maybe I could make a better product? I believed there was a way to combine a motion sensor to a communications module to alert parents that their baby had turned over in their sleep. At this point I had only an idea. I did not have any software or hardware knowledge but maybe I could rely on the collective knowledge from the hacker community. 

In December 2012, after talking through my idea with my brother and some members of the hackerspace community we created a working proof of concept. Our initial proof of concept used Texas Instruments Key-fob development kit that you can buy off the shelf. We had the hardware, they just needed someone to find a use for it.

What we prototyped was a baby sensor that could be placed onto a child's clothing, using an an accelerometer (these are used in smartphone screens to detect landscape and portrait orientation) and a bluetooth low energy module to sync back to your mobile phone. Mobile phones are always on, and though a simple 'pairing' process easily syncs to your phone.


We are now past the 'prototype' stage. We are still relying on the Texas Instruments default app as we do not have a working software program (again iOS is difficult to program) but we are slowly learning along the way.

Another reason for our delay is that lack of validation. We do not know if this product will help parents in the long run. We do not know if there are any buyers for our product as we have not validated the idea. We are unsure if this product will further contribute to infant death. I believe we need to put our product through a testing phase. We certainly do not want our product to cause any infant deaths. 

There are a lot of unanswered questions. I am afraid of failing, yet there is some part of me that is afraid of succeeding. 


In June 2013 after putting our idea on the shelf, Billy Han, another member of DimSumLabs asked if he could help us with our idea. He told us that he really believes in the product and volunteered to look at the software side. His interest and encouragement has really renewed our focus and we are slowly moving forward with our idea.

We are now toying with the idea of creating a crowdfunding campaign to deliver our product to parents that believe in our product.

I wonder now what our next step will be and whether or not other parents will believe in our solution... 






